you
this lecture is about the methods for
text categorization so in this lecture
we're going to discuss how to do text
categorization first there are many
methods for text localization in such
method
the idea is to determine the category
based on some rules that we design
carefully to reflect the domain
knowledge about the categorization
problem so for example if you want to do
topical categorization for news articles
you can say well if the news article
mentions warlike game and sports three
times that we're going to say it's about
sports things like that and this would
allow us to determine his degree decide
that which category a document it should
be put into now such a strategy would
work well if the following conditions
hold
first the categories must be variable
defined and this allows a person to
clearly decide the category based on
some some clear rules
secondly the categories have to be
easily distinguished based on surface
features in text so that means
superficial features like keywords or
punctuation or whatever you can easily
identify in text data for example if
there is some special vocabulary that is
known to only occur in a particular
category and that would be most
effective because we can easily use such
a vocabulary or padding of such a
vocabulary to recognize this category
now we also should have sufficient
knowledge for designing these rules and
so if that's the case then such a method
that can be effective and so it does
have applications in some
domains and sometimes however in general
there was several problems with this
approach first of course it's labor
intensive and requires a lot of manual
work obviously we can't do this for all
kinds of categorization problems we have
to do it from scratch for a different
problem because different the rules
would be needed so it isn't a scalable
well now secondly it cannot handle
uncertainty same rules often the the
rules aren't 100% reliable
take for example and looking at the
occurrences of words in text and trying
to decide the topic it's it's actually
very hard to have one percent correct
the rule so for example you can say well
if it has gained sports basketball then
for sure it's about sports but one can
also imagine some types of articles that
making these keywords but that may not
be adapted about the sports or made
marginally touching sports the main
topic could be another topic different
topic in sports so that's one
disadvantage of this approach and and
finally the rules may be inconsistent
and this would lead to concern about
robustness more specifically and
sometimes the results of categorization
may be different depending on which war
to be applied so in that case then your
face uncertainty and you will also have
to decide the order of applying the
rules or combination of results that are
contradictory so all these are problems
with this approach and it turns out that
both problems can be solved or
alleviated by using machine learning so
these machine learning methods are more
automatic but I still put automatic in
quotation marks because they are not
really completely automatic because they
still require manual work more
specifically we have to use human
experts to help in two ways first the
human
experts must a new tape data service
category labels I would tell the
computer which documents should that
receive which categories and this is
called training data and then secondly
the human experts also need to provide a
set of features to represent the each
text object that can potentially provide
a clue about the category so we need to
provide some basic features for the
computers to look into and in the case
of text a natural choice would be the
words so using each word as a feature is
a very common choice to start with but
of course there are other suffice to get
the features like a phrases or even
possibly tags or or even syntactic
structures so once human experts can
provide this then we can use machine
learning to learn soft rules for
categorization from the training data so
soft rules just means we're going to
decide which category should be assigned
to a document but it's not going to be
used using a rule that that is
deterministic so we might use something
similar to saying that if it matches
game sports many times it's likely to be
a sports but we're not going to say
exactly for sure but instead we're going
to use probabilities or weights so that
we can combine multiple evidences so the
learning process basically is going to
figure out which features are most
useful for separating different
categories and it's going to also figure
out how to optimally combine features to
minimize the errors of categorization on
the training data so the training there
are as you can see it's very important
it's the basis for learning and then the
train a classifier can be applied to a
new texture objector to predict the most
likely category and that's receive a
late the prediction of what human would
assign to this text object if the human
were to make a judgement so when we use
machine learning for texture
categorization we can also talk about
the problem in the general setting of
supervisor
so the sera
is to learn a classifier to map a value
of X into an upon Y so here X is all the
text objects and y is all the categories
a set of categories so the classifier
would take any value in X as input and
we generate a value in Y as output
we hope the output of Y would be the
right category for X and here correct
of course is judged based on the
training later so that's the general
goal like in all the machine learning
problems or supervised learning problems
where you are given some examples of
input and output for a function and then
the computer is going to figure out how
the function behaves like based on these
examples and then try to be able to
compute the values for future X's that
we have not seen so in general or all
methods would rely on discriminative
features of text objects to distinguish
it different categories so that's why
these features are very important and
they have to be provided by humans and
they will also combine multiple features
in a weighting manner with weights to be
optimized to minimize the errors on the
training data so ultimately the learning
process is the optimization problem and
the objective function is often tied to
the errors on the training data
different methods tend to vary in their
ways of measuring the errors on the
training data they might optimize a
different objective function which is
often also called a loss function or
cost function they also tend to vary in
their ways of combining the features so
linear combination for example simple is
often used but they are not as powerful
as non linear combination but nonlinear
models might be more complex for
training so there are trade-offs as well
but that would lead to
different variations of the many
variations of the things learning
methods so in general we can distribute
two kinds of classifiers at a high level
one is called a generative classifiers
the other is called a discriminative
classifiers the generative classifiers
try to learn what the data looks like in
each category so it attempts to model
the joy in the distribution of the data
and in the label x and y and this can
then be factored out to a product of Y
the distribution of labels and join the
probability of sorry the conditional
probability of x given Y so it's y so we
first model distributing of labels and
then we model how the data is generated
given a particular label here and once
we can estimate these models then we can
compute this conditional probability on
label given data based on the
probability of the data given label and
the label distribution here by using the
base wall now this is the most important
thing because this conditional
probability of the label can then be
used directly to decide which label is
most likely so in such approaches the
objective function is actually line code
and so we model how the data are
generated so only the sit only
indirectly captures the training errors
but if we can model the data in each
category accurately then we can also
classify accurately one example is nice
Bayes classifier in this case the other
kind of approaches are called of
discriminative classifiers and these
classifiers try to learn what features
separate categories so they directed the
tackle the problem of category
separation of classes so sorry for the
problem
so these discriminative classifiers
attempted to model the conditional
probability of the label given the data
point directly so the objective function
tends to tear after they measure the
errors of calculation on the training
data some examples include the
logistical regression support vector
machines and the K nearest neighbors we
will cover some of these classifiers in
detail in the next few lectures
you